# GEOG176C
Attached is the final report for the project "Determining the Best Time Interval to Measure Home Ranges of Wildebeests in the Serengeti Desert." This project was completed for the course GEOG176C, GIS Design and Applications.\
\
This study involves researching the optimal time interval at which to measure convex hulls for wildebeests in the Serengeti National Park. Convex hulls output a polygon with the shortest perimeter that encloses a set of points. They are a great tool for animal movement analysis because they do not underestimate the habitat range of animals, they convert traveled points into a clear area, and they allow researchers to estimate an animal’s home range. Convex hulls have the potential to be a very telling representation of an animal’s home range, which is defined as the area over which an animal or group of animals regularly travels, but only if used appropriately. One factor that can determine how well a convex hull represents reality is the time interval that is used when creating a hull. For example, creating a convex hull based on one day’s worth of movement would not be very representative of reality because it is too short and random of an interval. On the other hand, using a month interval would be overfitting and not representative because it takes too much movement into account that could fluctuate because of external factors that cannot be considered when analyzing a convex hull. Through experimenting with different time intervals for creating convex hulls, our group wanted to find the most fitting time interval for wildebeests in the Serengeti National Park.
